Goals:

Build payment autonomous operations agent that continuously monitors payment process across various payment methods like UPI, card, ach, wire and merchant systems.

Payment process should be error free. Predict dispute earlier and take preventive measures.

Check failed payments, duplicate debits, chargebacks, refund requests, and settlement mismatches and create mechanisms to solve it proactively.

Reduce payment operations effort and improve resolution speed for exceptions, disputes, and chargebacks.

We must implement Payment message interpretation, exception classification, dispute lifecycle automation,
evidence retrieval, policy-based decisioning, SLA prioritization, and responsible escalation design.

Draft a email for the customer or merchant communication, and route high-risk or policy-sensitive cases to operation teams.











Success criteria:

Continuous monitoring should be able to detect errors via payment methods such as  UPI, card, ach, wire and merchant systems ahead and device a mechanism to prevent it.

Successfully detecting failed payments, duplicate debits, chargebacks, refund requests, and settlement mismatches and create mechanisms to solve it proactively.

Fast resolution of exceptions, disputes, and chargebacks.

Should be able to do Payment message interpretation, exception classification, dispute lifecycle automation,
evidence retrieval, policy-based decisioning, SLA prioritization, and responsible escalation design.

Should successfully draft mail for the customer or merchant communication, and route high-risk or policy-sensitive cases to operation teams.


Execution by humans:

X human will create the payment autonomous operations agent that continuously monitors payment process
Y human will Check for failed payments
Z human will work on the resolution of issues
A human will draft a mail for customer
B human will raise sensitive, high-risk issue to operation team
C human will work on improving the system




Goal, success criteria, step by step workflow, agent,

output in graphical diagram mode

open router api as llm model

